From a free kick in a World Cup final. Glad
you listened to me, sometimes, rightly anyway, it's a kick
off here for Brazil. We're about to start the World
Cup final of 2002, the first one of the new
century, and it's Brazil straight away from the kickoff pressing.
Forward Trevor Brooking has had a chance to speak yet
from earlier in the tournament, otherwise he wouldn't have played
in this final, rather like Ballack.
Now then, cleverson for Brazil, Ronaldinho coming in from the
far side.
Been taken cleanly by Khan.
And when they fooled them here, Norville.
Could have gone anywhere. Really. Can't Brazil smuggle it?
Away up there for a set piece Germany they could
just create that one opportunity that.
Could be crucial, and so could Brazil cleverson.
Him.
By Schneider as well could play by Germany. Closer is
in the middle and side closes there. Ohh well closer
was close.
Fantastic defending my admission that #5.
This is closure.
Schneider did well closer under, no evil in the middle.
Ohh, one closer goes in. It's a goal kick. Or
is it? No, it's a corner advantage played by the
referee and it was Ronaldinho who took advantage and Ronaldo's
in here.
And you had to look twice to make sure he'd
missed.
Well, that was just the situation. Brazil had waited well,
opening 20 minutes for terrific ball from Ronaldinho. And what
does he hit it with? The outside of his left
foot. He seems like he's got caught in two minds.
Shall I shoot from guys? He's weaker foot.
And it was Boda who came in at the back
and met Zelda still in there, Brazil once again not
clearing comfortably near the.
Halfway line.
On the halfway line, here he is again, Ronald. This
is Ronald Denio and Ronaldo is in here for Brazil
and Oliver Kahn is able to make the save at
rinaldo's feet.
That's where they want him, right near the penalty here.
You've got to say, it's been a scrappy performance. Brazil,
though, I've had two golden opportunities.
And now you'll miss the shots on for yen jeremies.
How many scored once in 30 yet to solve the
puzzle?
Over his cleverson for Brazil. He's right in here, cleberson.
I'm afraid Cleberson rather clobbered the shot.
On his left foot.
First indecision, I mean I think the two free.
Ronaldinho.
Cleverson now always hit the ball.
A breathtaking effort from Cleberson, but Khan can breathe again.
Well, on his right foot they proved away, didn't they?
Worked out to the left. They knocked it into that
dangerous area.
Ohh survived another scare, Ronaldinho back to Roberto Carlos driving
Lower Cross. Anybody's fault would save on the card.
From Ronaldo again.
This is a personal tussle now between the goalkeeper and
the top scorer as the whistle goes for half time
and Khan has won it at the moment. Whether it's
handle, that's the cleverson effort off the bar, but just
then.
Card on this occasion was beaten but on the other
three occasions that mattered he got the better of Ronaldo.
This was a ball in by Roberto Carlos right on
half time. The defender doesn't really get hold of it.
There metzelder and it was Khan again.
Excellent on the ball, you know, pushing forward more, trying
to get a grip and control into the midfield area
and certainly the supply. Then it's gonna be better for
the likes of Ronaldo, Ronaldinho and Rivaldo so.
Brazil beat Oliver Kahn. That's the big question. At the
beginning of the second-half. He's only conceded one goal, as
I said in the championship so far.
Oh.
Well, it was your Amis.
And.
Everybody seemed to just stand still and gasp there.
Brazil is.
Wow.
But this looks like the Norville and it is Norville
Ohh and they hit the toast.
Germany.
Well, I couldn't believe that he was going to shoot
from that distance and get the power, but look, he
goes round swerving with the outside and the faintest of
touches by Marcos onto the post. St Ronaldo tried a
couple step overs but he couldn't.
Sell the damn played short to Roberto Carlos, said Nielsens.
Arriving. Aren't Carnas saved it again.
Unbelievably from Gilberto Silva, I think.
Fantastic save.
Drifted it the better Carlos towards the far post. Two
of them coming in and he's really got, but there
he is. Rivaldo is the first man, but it's cheaper.
Oh well, haha.
Wow.
Deep mahaman, the last man to score at Wembley. Poo.
Ronaldinho always that.
That's the six year old box ahead of Ronaldo and
Rivaldo. This is Schneider.
Most stretching there was Neuville.
Was unlucky. Schneider worked the opportunity well. This clipped in
probably is a little bit. For now, they'll just try
to hook it and help it on, but it went
too fast and it was passed him before he could
get the touch.
So it's to his right.
But again, Ronaldo just runs into trouble. This is Harman.
Ronaldo wins it back.
Now, can he find Rivaldo? Yes, he can.
And a stake by Oliver Kahn. After all the great
saves he's made and the man who pounces is Ronaldo.
With his seventh goal of the tournament and his 11th
in World Cup finals. Rivaldo has the shot can't fumbles
and Ronaldo makes up the 1998 by steering in the
rebound. It's Brazil won, Germany nil.
What an irony. Khan has been magnificent spills it.
The two hours to his left, or two of the
three, I should say Ronaldinho has dropped back a bit
here. Clevis. Redondos, dummy. Ronaldo, it's two you.
Well, there was rampant now.
Resplendent Ronaldo.
True for him.
Turn for Brazil?
And is that their fifth World Cup?
79 minutes gone. It's Brazil to Germany, nil, and Khan
is crestfallen.
That's great goal. They just know how to suck you.
In and now linker.
This is Torsten Frings ohh chance. Great save by Marcos
of Oliver Bio.
Was the great save well played their firings. He knocked
it in and on the swivel beer off.
The free kick, though, to German. And there's danger here
and Marcos is caught out. He started to come and
he wouldn't have got there.
Juninho did well there, he's away, he's got Rivaldo to
his left and Rinaldo's further over and he's played the
wrong ball.
I think it was a right. Paul was a bad
boy. He was trying to square it to Rivaldo.
Coach just running down the clock a bit here with
another substitute and Ronaldo actually will not be on the
field when the match ends.
But there's a raw going up to greet his departure
and Danielsen takes his place. The Brazilian Subs are off
the bench. They're waving, screaming for the final whistle. The
play goes on. Rivaldo is in the centre. Janini O
is backing up here.
This is danielsen.
Little backheel to Julio.
And I make the three minutes now. Have you latched?
But Danielson doesn't want to know about that. He's trying
to go past Asamoa now. He's the referee going to
pick up the ball and sell the final whistle, and
he does. And Brazil win the World Cup for the
5th time.
And Ronaldo, the woebegone figure of four years ago, is
now a World Cup winner.
In France, he made headlines because he's been in hospital
tonight. He makes headlines as a hero.
Scoring the two goals by which Brazil beat Germany.
In the first ever World Cup meeting between the two
nations.
Oliver Kahn is distraught.
Brazil are delighted, their supporters are delirious.
Spontaneous skill still stirs the soul for football lovers everywhere,
and, well, no wonder they're carrying him up on their
shoulders.
Watch a story got finished at the World Cup.
Well, they were beginning to say it was the tournament
of the underdog, but Ronaldo is top dog and he's
also top scorer with eight in the championship, the winner
of the Golden Boot, the best record for a striker
for over 30 years.
And indeed, the first time since 1970 since the brilliant
Brazilians won an A World Cup final in normal time.
Trevor Brooking.
Well, great celebrations and.
Nobody.
Could begrudge Ronaldo that. I mean, when you think of
what he went through four years ago, that when we
scurried around that commentary position because he was in and
out and then he was in, never ever really recovered
over the last three or four years, and suddenly he's
going to be in the headlines all over the world.
Well, that's certainly true. And just one little thing here,
little point is that Brazil also make a little piece
of history now from their point of view, it's unfortunate.
They do not qualify automatically for the next World Cup
by being holders. The rules have been changed. They will
have to qualify once all these celebrations die down and
Germany has hosts next time have automatic qualification. That's a
slight back to front end to the evening, but just
look at this.